Consuming messages via JMS using Spring XML configuration is a bit
more involved than the annotation-driven approach.
I've generated a new class called EMailMessageListener,
which is a single method called onMessage,
which takes an email object as a parameter.
You'll notice it doesn't implement any interface or have any
knowledge outside its business domain.
It purely knows about email objects.
I guess this is one of the best things about Spring's pure XML configuration.
There is little clutter in your code.
However, that information has to be defined somewhere,
and that somewhere is in the configuration file.
If we look in it,
then I have a new Bean defined for the class we've just been looking at.
Then I have this section called ListenerContainer,
which has its own XML namespace defined.
We can see the definition of that at the top of the file,
which you'll need to add if you want to use it.
The ListenerContainer XML element is really a definition of a template,
then each JmsListener is an implementation of that template,
which is really a new DefaultMessageListenerContainer.
So each new container will use the ConnectionFactory called
ActiveMqConnectionFactory or message-converter,
and will have a dynamic number of consumers between 3 and 10,
depending on the load and a JMS acknowledgment mode of transacted.
Then you declare your actual destinations and consumer
implementations for each container.
I've only got one JmsListener declared here,
but you can have as many listeners as you want.
Notice the listener uses a reference to our
emailsMessageListener class and the method to use.
This also means you can have a single class that can
receive different message types.
So for the most part,
the only thing that will be different is the destination and method description.
It's also on the JmsListener that you declare the
messageSelector you want to use if you require one.
That's pretty much all it takes to declare an asynchronous JMS consumer.
So let's see this running.
In preparation,
I've placed a number of email messages on the emails queue earlier,
so let's see if this application consumes them correctly.
And we can see from the output it does.
Jumping into the Admin console,
I can see on our queue that we have a number of consumers,
which will scale up or down dynamically depending on load.
So we've seen an example of connecting to a queue,
we now need to configure another listenerContainer for topics.
Similar to our EmailMessageListener, I've got an OrderMessageListener,
which has a single onMessage method and receives order objects.
There's nothing new here.
Back in our Spring XML configuration,
I've got another listener container that is very similar to the queues one.
I've just added a couple of fields, namely the clientID and a destination-type,
which I want to be a durable topic.
I'm also setting concurrency to be always 1,
as any more than that doesn't make sense for a topic; otherwise,
the same message will be delivered to multiple consumers.
On my JmsListener itself, I declare the subscription name I want to use.
If you don't want to receive order messages,
but instead want to receive plain JMS message objects,
then your OrderMessageListener must change to implement
the JmsMessageListener interface, and in my XML,
I can get rid of the method name, as it won't be used.
Now if I try that,
I should start to see ActiveMQ text messages being received in my output, which we can see here.